---
id: 270
title: Mac OS X 10.3.7 Update Released
date: 2004-12-15T17:03:55+00:00
author: Derik
layout: single
guid: http://godlikenerd.com/weblog/2004/12/15/mac-os-x-1037/
permalink: /weblog/2004/12/15/mac-os-x-1037/
dsq_thread_id:
  - "64767396"
shorturl:
  - Generating...
categories:
  - Macs
---
Fire up software update or download the [delta](http://www.apple.com/support/downloads/macosxupdate_10_3_7.html) or [combo](http://www.apple.com/support/downloads/macosxcombinedupdate_10_3_7.html) installers. The enhancements, [straight from Apple](http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=300385) are:

### Applications

  * Allows TextEdit to open certain RTF documents that previously wouldn't open, resulting in a &#8220;TextEdit Open Failed. Couldn't open file&#8221; alert.
  * Resolves an issue in which Safari, Mail, and other networking applications that use DNS lookups could experience intermittent connectivity issues with Security Update 2004-09-30 and Mac OS X 10.3.5 or later installed.
  * Addresses an issue with Blizzard World of Warcraft in which the game's frame rate could drop considerably when in &#8220;Ghost mode,&#8221; if the computer uses an nVidia graphics card.
  * Resolves an issue in which enabling Vertex Shaders in World of Warcraft could lead to unexpected graphics issues when using an nVidia graphics card.
  * Addresses an issue with World of Warcraft in which incorrect colors or unexpectedly flashing objects could appear when using an ATI Radeon 9600 graphics card, making gameplay difficult.
  * Improves compatibility for Pacific Tech's Graphing Calculator 3.5&#8212;some 3D surfaces might not render in Mac OS X 10.3.6.

### Other

  * Addresses an issue in which a brief &#8220;flash of lines&#8221; may appear on the screen when waking the computer from sleep after the &#8220;Flurry&#8221; Screen Saver has run, if the computer uses an ATI Radeon 8500, 9000, 9200, 9600, or M9 graphics chip.
  * Improves compatibility for FireWire-based audio interfaces, including the Edirol FA-101 FireWire audio interface.
  * Enables E*TRADE PDF account statements to be viewed in Preview.
  * An Apple Cinema 22&#8243; ADC display, when connected to certain PowerBook computers, no longer shows random &#8220;stuttering&#8221; or other graphics anomalies in the Finder and DVD Player.
  * Addresses an issue in which shadowed text in a PDF file may print differently than it appears on the screen when printing to a raster printer.
  * Filenames longer than 31 characters are no longer shortened when the file is saved on a server via Apple File Sharing.
  * Resolves an issue with Mac OS X 10.3.6 in which some FireWire hard drives would not appear (&#8220;mount&#8221;) on the desktop.
  * Addresses an issue with Mac OS X 10.3.6 in which DVD Player might not open on some Power Mac G4 computers that use an ATI Radeon 9800 AGP video card.
  * Resolves an issue that prevented printing to some Windows-based print servers.