---
id: 378
title: Writing 10,000 Posts
date: 2005-03-25T21:20:39+00:00
author: Derik
layout: single
guid: http://godlikenerd.com/weblog/2005/03/25/writing-10000-posts/
permalink: /weblog/2005/03/25/writing-10000-posts/
dsq_thread_id:
  - "64768356"
shorturl:
  - http://l.derik.us/22
categories:
  - Personal
---
I&#8217;ve hit a major milestone in my involvement in [Macworld&#8217;s Forums](http://www.macworld.com/forums/). I&#8217;ve written 10,000 entries there. I&#8217;ve learned many, many things. I&#8217;ve taught and told people many things. I was even afforded the opportunity to have the prestigious title of moderator.

To celebrate this moment, I&#8217;d like to share what I&#8217;ve learned.

  * **The way to learn to love writing is the act itself.** Would you believe that I wasn&#8217;t a big fan of writing prior to my involvement in the forums? The only reason I didn&#8217;t despise it was the encouragement I got in my college writing class. The problem was that the class ended and I didn&#8217;t really get to explore the subject matter that excites me. I found myself an outlet. I started sharing the bits and pieces of knowledge I had accrued from troubleshooting my own machines and obsessively reading Mac news and software sites. Sharing this information was my passion. All that reading I did wasn&#8217;t satisfying, it&#8217;s fuel for my writing.
  * **Patience takes time.** As curt as I am now, I once had a lot more contempt for some people. Whether I perceived ignorance was caused by stupidity or laziness, it didn&#8217;t matter. Now I realize that some people really lack the knowledge to even research answers, even if it is as simple as running a Google search. I&#8217;m still impatient with some people, but that usually because of an attitude.
  * **Don&#8217;t participate to get moderator status.** Becoming a moderator was incidental to me. If you go into it trying to get something, you&#8217;re not going to get anything. It&#8217;ll feel like a job and you&#8217;ll ultimately resent every other member.
  * **Don&#8217;t post just post count.** You&#8217;re going to sound like an idiot if you post every thought you have. It&#8217;s annoying. Here&#8217;s a good rule of thumb. If your entire post is _I wholeheartedly support X_, then it&#8217;s probably not worth saying. Give a fresh perspective or an interesting view point.
  * **Know when you&#8217;ve said all that you can say.** This will get you out of a lot of pissing contests. I still haven&#8217;t mastered this. It&#8217;s easy to get caught up in an argument and want to get the last word in. When you start repeating your arguments, it&#8217;s time to move on. Some people think that developing a reputation is about winning every argument (and starting them if they don&#8217;t already exist).
  * **Some people don&#8217;t want to be your friend, but most do.** It&#8217;s hard to tell when someone is being a troll or is just really frustrated. The best way to figure this out is offer solutions to what they&#8217;re bitching about. If they don&#8217;t find value in any of the suggestions and thank you, they&#8217;re a troll. Either ignore them or tell them you&#8217;re sorry you couldn&#8217;t help and get out of the conversation. They&#8217;re not interested in discourse.

That&#8217;s all I&#8217;ve got for now.